content: draft: Moved example to a new threat. (#1250)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/draft/threats.md

on the package repository and deletes existing provenance. Solution: Verifier
rejects because provenance is missing.

</details>
<details><summary>Replace package and VSA with another <span>(expectations)</span></summary>

*Threat:* Replace a package and its VSA with a malicious package and its valid VSA.

*Mitigation*: Verifier checks that the `resourceUri` in the VSA matches the package

> they've requested not just the package they received.

Reviewer: Are we assuming that the VSA producer is the same identity in both (and therefore the mitigation wouldn't just be to check the identity of the producer?

Reviewer 2: I think the consumer has a list of data fields that must be true about their consumed artifacts. It's essentially the known-ahead-of-time-somehow "definition of correctness."

It would definitely include uri, issuer id, and maybe a bunch of domain-specific claims too

Author: Yeah we already have a set of instructions for what to verify when checking the VSA: https://slsa.dev/spec/draft/verification_summary#how-to-verify

Reviewer 2: should it just be this then, to be more general? 
I don't have a very strong opinion here. 

```suggestion
*Mitigation*: Consumer ensures that the VSA matches the package they've requested (not just the package they received) by following the [verification process](verification_summary#how-to-verify).
```

Author: That's great. :)

*Example:* Adversary uploads a malicious package to `repo/evil-package`,
getting a valid VSA for `repo/evil-package`. Adversary then replaces
`repo/my-package` and its VSA with `repo/evil-package` and its VSA.
Solution: Verifier rejects because the VSA `resourceUri` field lists

> `repo/evil-package` and not the expected `repo/my-package`.

Author: So right now this threats page is set up to enumerate lots of specific threats and then get into the details of how those specific threats can be mitigated.  Note how section 'd' covers each of the various expectations separately: https://slsa.dev/spec/draft/threats#d-external-build-parameters

What I hear you suggesting is that we change that model to something else?

FWIW there was a brief discussion [here](https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues/1184#:~:text=Separately%2C%20I%27m%20wondering%20if%20this%20is%20a%20reason%20to%20move%20the%20mitigations%20from%20(G)%20(discussed%20in%20%231190%2C%20%231191)%20to%20(I)%20since%20%27usage%27%20is%20more%20clearly%20aligned%20with%20this%20risk%20than%20with%20%27distribution%20channel%27.%20(Or%20maybe%20we%20can%20just%20tweak%20the%20mitigation%20language%20here%20to%20discuss).) about moving more things to 'Usage'.

> `repo/evil-package` and not the expected `repo/my-package`.

Reviewer 2: > What I hear you suggesting is that we change that model to something else?

I bet this kind of detail is useful for search engine optimization too, so I'm generally okay with very specific examples. 

I don't think this section needs to be as thorough and complete as other sections of the spec. 
In these examples I'm fine saying "here's a good example of why a specific element is required in the VSA spec."

> `repo/evil-package` and not the expected `repo/my-package`.

Author: Excellent, that seems to be WAI then.  Let me close this thread. (but please reopen if you have other thoughts)
